## Using the Erlang argparse module (DRAFT)

This post will explore a great new tool for commandline argument parsing
introduced In Erlang/OTP 26:
[argparse](https://www.erlang.org/doc/apps/stdlib/argparse.html)

While there are a number of nice tools including
[args](https://github.com/max-au/argparse) and
[getopt](https://github.com/jcomellas/getopt), it's really convenient to have
a built-in option that improves upon the venerable
`init:get_plain_arguments/0`!

---

### Argparse in OTP 26

As mentioned up top, you'll need Erlang/OTP 26 in order to use the new argparse module.

To use argparse, you'll need write an escript that exports two new required
functions: `main/1`, which will be the entrypoint to your escript, and `cli/0`
which will define a map of your commandline arguments.

#### Introducing `crimp` - a small HTTP client
As we all know, the entirety of _[`curl` can be rewritten in a three-day
weekend†](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2021/05/20/i-could-rewrite-curl/)_ so
let's take a stab at a simple `curl`-like HTTP client with some argument
parsing.

_† Please don't shame me, Daniel Stenberg!_

#### Setting up the application
For any new project, I use [`rebar3`](https://www.rebar3.org/) to set up the
skeleton of my application.

```bash
rebar3 new escript crimp
cd crimp
```

#### Designing the interface
I like to start out by sketching out the arguments of my program. For `crimp`,
we'll want to mimick `curl` and implement its behaviors as best we can. We
obviously won't do the whole thing (as to not incur Daniel's wrath!), but we
will implement the `-L` flag for following redirects and the `-X` flag for
specifying HTTP methods to give you a feel for how `argparse` works in Erlang.

From the `curl` [manpage](https://curl.se/docs/manpage.html), let's check out
the definitions of -L and -X respectively. Here's the relevant parts for us:

> -L, --location
> 
> (HTTP) If the server reports that the requested page has moved to a different
> location (indicated with a Location: header and a 3XX response code), this
> option makes curl redo the request on the new place.
> 
> The method set with -X, --request overrides the method curl would otherwise
> select to use.

Note here the behavior when combined with `-X`. As for the definition of `-X`: 

> -X, --request <method>
>
> Change the method to use when starting the transfer.

There's a ton of possible verbs for HTTP and other protocols, but implmenting
all of them is beyond the scope of this post. Instead, we are going to limit
ourselves to implementing the GET and POST verbs to give you an idea of how
`argparse` works.

#### Building the arguments map
Go ahead and open up `src/crimp.erl` in your favorite editor. Next let's view
the documentation page for `argparse`
[here](https://www.erlang.org/doc/apps/stdlib/argparse).

From the docs, the first thing we need to do is define a map structure that
defines commands, sub-commands, optional arguments, etc. For `crimp`/`curl` we
really only use optional arguments and not much in the way of commands or
sub-commands. The `argparse` authors represent this as a 0-arity `cli()`
function, so we will too. Here's the definition for `crimp`:

```erlang
cli() ->
    #{
        arguments => [
            #{ name => location,
               long => "-location",
               short => $L,
               type => boolean
             },
            #{ name => request,
               long => "-request",
               short => $X,
               type => {atom, ['GET','POST']}
             }
        ],
        handler => fun(Args) -> io:format("~p~n", [Args]) end
     }.
```

##### Aside: Dollar sign syntax
The `$<letter>` syntax here may be a bit unusual to you, but it converts the chosen letter into its ASCII format. I.e., in a new Erlang shell:
```erlang
1> $L.
76
```

Whereas if we specified a bare L, we'd get an error because the Erlang compiler assumes it is a variable:
```erlang
2> L.
* 1:1: variable 'L' is unbound
```

If we tried a quoted "L" instead, we'd get a list that contains the ASCII repsentation of L:
```erlang
3> "L" == [76].
true
```


